Bestower of Supreme Accomplishment
A Torma Offering to Mahākāla
by Paksam Wangpo

Recite “In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly…etc.” Then:
rang gi chiwor gönpö wang gyü kyi
I present various offerings to all the gurus
lama kün shyuk chöpa natsok bul
Of the Mahākāla empowerment lineage at my crown.
rangnyi khorlo dompa yabyum du
The very instant that I visualize myself as Cakrasaṃvara and consort,
salwé möla gek tsok ring du tré
All obstructing forces are scattered far into the distance.
tengok choktsam meri khadok nga
And above and below, and in each cardinal and intermediate directions,
tsöncha natsok barwé gurkhang gyur
There arises a mountain of five-coloured fire, ablaze with weaponry, to form a protective dome.
Visualization
om shunya ta
Oṃ śūnyatā…etc.
tongpé ngang lé ku sung tuk sum gyi
Out of the state of emptiness, the great maṇḍala
kyilkhor chenpor drubpa é yi nang
Of enlightened body, speech and mind is formed.
hung lé mahakala chartrin dok
Within É, Mahākāla, the colour of a raincloud, arises from Hūṃ.
chak shyi yé nyi bai ta raldri dang
He has four hands, the right two holding a coconut and sword
yön nyi töpa tsesum rabtu zung
And the left two brandishing a skullcup and trident.
bom tung süpa chang shying lhu lak rak
He is thickset with a sagging belly and sturdy limbs
rüpé chakgya druk dang drul gyi tré
And is adorned with the six bone ornaments and a chain of serpents,
tökam chöpen go lön trengwa chang
As well as a crown of skulls and a necklace of severed heads.
langchen tak dang shying gi pakpa gö
He wears elephant hide and tiger and human skin.
shyab nyi rolpé tab kyi bam chen teng
He is gracefully poised upon human corpses,
ji ching gying bak chenpö yumchen dang
Resplendent and dignified, and is embracing
nyompar shyukpé pé nyi den la shyuk
His great consort while seated upon lotus and sun.
shyenyang ying drol ré ti ché shyi dang
Also present are Ekajaṭī, queen of space, the liberating mother Śrīdevī Dhūmāṅgārī, and four
Rematī sisters,
rik sum lé gön dé shyi kagyé ché
Together with the protectors of the three families, the four classes of activity protector,
and eight pronouncement protectors,
go tsam dorjé ponya drukchu shyi
As well as the sixty-four vajra messengers at the threshold,
go kyong chamdral dé gyé chokkyong chu
The eight male and female gatekeepers, guardians of the ten directions,
gyalchen shyi sok rang rik der chepa
And the four great kings—each with their own ranks,
kechik tsam la dündu salwar gyur
All clearly appearing instantaneously before me.
Invocation
hung, mahakala yong kyi wangchuk ché
Hūṃ. Mahākāla, great and mighty lord of all,
yeshe gönpo kanyen khor dangché
Wisdom protector, with your circle of attendants,
dé dang dungwé né dir chendren na
As we invite you through our ardent devotion,
ma tok nyurwa nyi du shek su sol
Come now, swiftly and without hindrance, we pray.
dza hung bam ho
Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
damtsik yeshe nyisumepar gyur
The samaya and wisdom beings merge indivisibly.
wanglhé wangkur rik kyi chöpen gyur
Empowerment deities confer empowerment and transform into the family crown.
Offering
hung, kuntuzangpö chöpé trin pung po
Hūṃ. Thick clouds of Samantabhadra’s offerings
mizé namkhé dzö du nam pelwa
Multiply and become an inexhaustible treasury of space,
kham sum wang du düpé chakkyü trul
A magical hook for magnetizing the three realms,
shinjé khab kyi jorpaden dé chö
With all the wealth of Yama’s court—this I offer.
Torma Offering
om gyi rab jang ah yi mangpor pel
Thoroughly purified with oṃ, massively increased with āḥ,
hung gi bar ho dütsir shyuwa yi
Ignited with hūṃ and melted into nectar with hoḥ—
nyampé sha trak rü tsok baling ta
This torma of transgressors’ flesh, blood and bones
damchen gyatsor bul lo kha ram khahi
I offer to an ocean of the oath-bound—kharaṃ khāhi!
om mahakala hung pé
Oṃ mahākāla hūṃ phaṭ…etc. (Three times)
a ka ro
Akāro (three times)
Requests
dakchak khor dang chepé sampé dön
Reveal all your power, strength and capacity
gekmé yishyin nyurdu drubpa dang
To vanquish the hosts of malevolent harm-doers
nöjé dukpé tsok kün mingmé du
And to bring about, swiftly and without impediment,
jompé tutsal nüpa chichi tön
Whatever we and those around us wish for and require.
Praise
hung, chökyi ying lé tröpé tensung ché
Hūṃ. Great guardian of the teachings, manifesting wrathfully from the dharmadhātu,
jarok mingchen mahakalé dé
Bearer of the name of raven, forces of Mahākāla,
mo gyü dangché kadö drekpé tsok
Succession of female guardians and hosts of haughty attendants—
kyilkhor chenpö lhatsok nam la tö
All you deities of this great maṇḍala, to you I offer praise.
Confession and Fulfilment
tsa tung yenlak chepa nyepé tsok
All faults, including breakages of the root and branch commitments,
gyöpé rab shak chi nang sangwa yi
I remorsefully confess; through these outer, inner and secret offerings
ten chö tündzé ma tsang mepa di
Of pleasing substances, complete, with nothing lacking,
khor ché tukdam nyenpo kang gyur chik
May you be pleased and the solemn pledges fulfilled.
Concluding Rite
jitar chöpé lhakché jungwa kün
For any errors or omissions which may have arisen in this offering,
zöpar shyé shik khor ché daknyi la
I beg your forgiveness! Together with your retinue, dissolve into me
nyimé tim né gé tsok chichi pa
Indivisibly; thereafter, may whatever virtues I have here amassed,
gong du pel nü gönpo drub gyur chik
Be increased further and further, so that we may accomplish the Protector!

Thus, at the request of Jarig Miyiwangpo, Paksam Wangpö Dé, who upholds the glorious Drukpa
tradition, wrote this at the Bihora plain of subjugating the eight classes. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2021, with the kind assistance of Khenpo Shedrup Tenzin, Sean
Price, and Patrik Izing.